gilbert says he was shocked when he saw
the vice news interview making its
rounds on social media
where rynell admits to shooting and
killing
39-year-old aaron j danielson last
saturday
during a pro-trump caravan that was met
by counter protesters in downtown
portland
this video from a twitter user shows
rynell among those counter protesters
take a look as we slow the clip down and
zoom in
everybody's got a right to do what they
[Music]
fortunately it hasn't been peaceful but
you can't walk up because somebody's got
a patriot prayer hat or a
trump hat or whatever and shoot him in
the chest it's wrong
it felt like the beginning of a war it
was a huge scoop
an exclusive interview with the antifa
activist wanted for shooting a pro-trump
supporter in portland
six days ago but just hours after the
promo
aired michael reinold was killed in a
shootout with u.s
marshals the u.s marshals service said
he had a gun
and threatened officers that's when they
opened fire
evidence markers suggest 28 shots or
more were fired
what is not clear yet is if rynell fired
any of those shots
the affidavit includes this surveillance
photo
which shows rynell inside a parking
garage earlier saturday night
as the victim jay danielson walks by
rynell can then be seen following them a
friend of danielson says
a man with rynell was the aggressor and
threatened to kill them
he also spoke to the common sense
conservative youtube channel so they
identified our hats
we've got a couple of them right here
got a couple of them right here pull it
out
pull it out and that's okay that's what
i said we turned around
i didn't even didn't even register that
somebody was pointing a gun at us
until the shots went off and took off
running this all happened as a car rally
in support of president trump was
wrapping up
a gun was found on danielson after his
death
but police say it wasn't used in the
encounter
the u.s attorney general's office
released a statement friday saying
local authorities had an arrest warrant
for the suspect who had fled portland
he was tracked to lacey washington by a
fugitive task force led by u.s
marshals and the fbi
[Music]
if you grew up left-wing as i did myself
you grew up in a subculture that
glorifies
violence that may seem a little strange
at first
because the left wing is remembered for
opposing the vietnam war
but if you stop and let yourself reflect
on it honestly especially if you're a
member of
of my generation what you'll realize is
that the left wing
was never opposed to nuclear weapons
they were never opposed to war in any of
these theaters
what they were opposed to was the united
states winning
and they supported the soviet union in
every war
that they thought the soviet union could
win and they supported the soviet union
in all of its victories
so what you're looking at in the
distinction between left and right
in the whole of the 20th century is not
the distinction between the pro-peace
and
pro-war factions in american politics or
western european politics
you're just looking at two different
sides
of one in the same war the cold war
and as i say i grew up with left-wing
parents
and i grew up literally seeing buttons
and posters that opposed nuclear weapons
like many members of my generation had a
creeping
realization really during my childhood
before i reached
my teenage years that the people i knew
including members of the people i knew
who went to these peace protests
they weren't protesting for peace they
weren't protesting against the war
they weren't even opposed to nuclear
weapons they just wanted the other side
to win
they were just protesting in support of
joseph stalin mao zedong they're heroes
men who by that time already had died of
old age
but whose faces were still very much on
the dollar bills
if you will of china and the soviet
union they were still
their statues were still towering over
the city squares the capitals of
russia and china respectively um
but the importance of this concept
of the revolution outsiders just can't
quite imagine i mean certainly you know
there are moderate
democrats and republicans for whom the
word revolution has
some kind of haughty inspirational
quality i i get it
but i don't think you can imagine what
it's like
growing up in a left-wing family where
people will interrupt you and shut you
down
where you're trying to discuss the
difference between solar power
and nuclear power generation and making
the transition or
trying to cope with climate change and
they will shut you down in mid-sentence
to say no no no
nothing can change nothing can be
improved without
the revolution what does that mean what
does it mean to grow up
with that mentality nothing
nothing can be improved there's no point
exerting
your mind your energies to
analysis research and learning about the
fine distinctions between
solar power and nuclear power generation
there's no point trying to figure out
how to ameliorate or improve
say the situation of african-americans
and the suburbs of some city in michigan
no no no no no no what real
intellectuals do
what the vanguard does is start making
revolution
here and now they take advantage of they
exacerbate
the fissures within capital site they
live with the conviction
not only that nothing can be improved
but that it would be counterproductive
it would actually be bad for the
revolution to make
improvements that would allow bourgeois
capitalist society to last longer
instead
what the real intellectuals of the left
wing do
is start making revolution here and now
and real left wingers have lots of
examples
of countries that never achieved the
preconditions that were set out
piously by karl marx and angle so don't
you know about
albania don't you know about the success
of the albanian revolution
all that you need is a moment of
violence is for men with long guns in
the streets
to tear down the government and set up a
commission
don't you know what happened in the
french revolution's
plural don't you all it takes is
violence increasingly with time
again over time i'm going from being six
years old eight years old
10 years old what you realize is that
it's not that there's some sort of
philosophy that's uncovered the
necessity
of the revolution rather what they
believe in
is the revolution is violence
by any other names and then they will
make up any
philosophy to justify that violence
that revolution
it wasn't in my own family only
that i encountered this mentality again
and again and again
um how can anyone care about
reforming the banking system or the tax
system
or dealing with corruption or looking
seriously at deforestation or power
generation
don't you know don't you know the
problem is the system
don't you know the problem is capitalism
and that the only solution or any
possible solution is going to start
not finish with revolution therefore
start directing your attention towards
revolutionary violence here and now you
see what this does
to the development of a young man the
very people
who present themselves as the most
refined
erudite highly educated even
scientifically enlightened thinkers of
the left
are in fact the new barbarians they're
the people for whom the solution
to every problem is violence and the
whole purpose of political thinking
is just the justification of proponing
of and recruiting people in for
joining in that self-same revolutionary
violence
the vast majority of the violence we've
seen
on the streets in the year 2020
is inspired by nothing more and nothing
less
than greed and
i suppose we should find that reassuring
there were a whole lot of people out
there
who just wanted a new pair of blue jeans
or a new video game system and they went
out and they robbed and they looted
target and so on and so forth so the
main motivation has been
great another massive motivation
is the fundamentally passive and
anti-revolutionary attitude that the
government
should solve the problem and that
therefore the role of the public
even if they're literally burning down a
wendy's or smashing the windows of a car
repair shop
the role of the public is just to
complain loudly enough
and demand loudly enough for the
government to solve this problem
for them again there's something
reassuring in this
in that these people are revolutionaries
they're profoundly conformist they
still just want the government to solve
their problems this ridiculous may sound
there is something fundamentally lazy in
their rioting they're not trying to tear
down the regime and replace with
something better
they don't have a manifesto they don't
have a new constitution they don't have
they don't have reforms they're
proposing the constitution
they just are trying to use violence in
the streets as a
as part of the culture of complaint with
the assumption that the government sits
there
in loco parentes the government is going
to sit there like a mature parent
that once the tantrum is over will
attend to the needs of the child
um but there is this
fragment of the revolutionary left
that's active in the street violence
that's pulling triggers
that's killing people in small numbers
here there and everywhere
and they're on the internet recruiting
because the only thing they believe in
is the inevitability of this revolution
and the instrumentality of violence
as the exclusive means to making
progress
towards the ends they desire they know
they'll never command a majority of
voters they know their views will never
be popular
they know they can't win in public
debates
so they've gotten on the road of
conspiracy
to try to organize all of the guns and
knives they can
and the year 2020 provides them with a
kind of opportunity
an opportunity to see if they can test
their luck
if they can act out some part of this
fantasy
that many of them will have been raised
with from early childhood
as i was myself
i just wasn't stupid enough to believe
in the religion of my forefathers
i was born and raised a communist
but i was able to grow beyond it
to come to sneer and laugh at everything
my parents taught me to leave